
# Table of Contents

1.  [Week 2](#org9991bb0)
    1.  [Some Computing/Programming concepts](#org8c91bf3)
        1.  [Tools](#orgc3e93cf)
        2.  [Quick Notes](#org93caaaa)
        3.  [Some things I wish to share with you:](#org66a0e12)
    2.  [Lesson plan](#orgb53974a)
        1.  [Introduction/ice breakers](#org809d484)
        2.  [Questions](#org638c9df)
    3.  [Assignment 1 Report](#orgec37a4c)
        1.  [General Comments](#org3b08658)
        2.  [Question 1](#org4f9e95c)
        3.  [Question 2](#org1d0ed47)
        4.  [Question 3](#orgf4597b3)
2.  [Week 3](#orge234245)
    1.  [Lesson Plan](#orgf6390d4)
        1.  [Pointers](#org4c299d3)



<a id="org9991bb0"></a>

# Week 2


<a id="org8c91bf3"></a>

## Some Computing/Programming concepts


<a id="orgc3e93cf"></a>

### Tools

1.  What is an IDLE?
    
    IDLE has two parts - an **Editor**, and a **Shell**.

2.  What is an Editor?
    
    Python programs are **plain text files**, ie, file consist of text without
    formatting. This is different from **rich text files** like `.docx` (that
    contains text formatting).
    
    Therefore the **Editor** in IDLE can be used to write python programs, and save
    them in `.py` format. You can use **ANY** other plain text editor to write a
    python program too! An example is Notepad in Windows.

3.  Where is the Editor in IDLE?
    
    `File -> New File`.

4.  What editors are nice to use?
    
    I recommend [PyCharm](https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/download/), a powerful Integrated
    Development Environment (IDE, Editor and more, usually with debugger), or
    [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/Download). If you want to be amazed, check out Vim and Emacs. Sticking to
    IDLE/Notepad is of course fine.
    
    Tips for IDLE users: when editing a file (in editor mode), go to `Options ->
       Toggle Line Numbers` for easier debugging - your errors will tell you which
    line got wrong.

5.  What is a Shell then?
    
    It is also known as REPL, Read-Eval-Print-Loop. As the name suggests, it
    gives you a prompt: `>>>` and whatever you type after that, after you press
    Enter, your code will be **Read**, **Evaluated**, results **Printed** out. Then
    this process **Loops**, back to you typing, then Python will **Read**, \*Eval\*…
    Yup, you got what I mean.
    
    This is a quick way to test out program fragments. For long programs, use a
    text editor.


<a id="org93caaaa"></a>

### Quick Notes

1.  The assignment operator (or, the equal `=` sign) is different from that of
    math.
    
        a = 3
        b = 4
        a = b # what, 3 = 4??
    
    The trick here is to remember:
    
    > Evaluate RHS, then give result to LHS.
    
    Then you will see that `a` gets the value of `b`. Now both `a` and `b` have
    value 4.

2.  Functions in Python are actually procedures - a shorthand for doing several
    things. For example, if your mum says: &ldquo;*help me buy the groceries!*&rdquo;, she
    actually meant that you should:
    -   First find a way to go to your favourite grocery store (physical or online)
    -   Then select the things you need
    -   Pay for them
    -   &#x2026;

Not all procedures return something (for example, the groceries). She can also
ask you to clean up your room which you don&rsquo;t need to return anything, so it is
just a procedure. If you want to return something in Python, use the `return`
keyword, otherwise `None` will be returned. (more on that later)


<a id="org66a0e12"></a>

### Some things I wish to share with you:

> “Programs must be written for people to read, and only incidentally for
> machines to execute.”


<a id="orgb53974a"></a>

## Lesson plan


<a id="org809d484"></a>

### Introduction/ice breakers

1.  Self intro

2.  Quick survey

    1.  Collect tele handles in group
    
    2.  Then send them the survey link
    
        <https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdA1JD4RaEi29XkhRioIIjyWmWBsS_EDHdotBuAsZhtj2AYEQ/viewform?usp=sf_link>

3.  PPT

    Outline:
    
    -   Operations - arithmetic, relational, types
    -   String slicing - start stop step
        -   Negative step size
    -   How to sort strings?
    -   Precedence
    -   Type Casting
        -   Is `1` True or false? is a string true or false?
    -   Variables
        -   What about the assignment
    -   Turtle

4.  Some of my extra points

    1.  Functions are NOT machines
    
        They are actually procedures that can sometimes act as machines
    
    2.  The Equal sign is not Equal
    
        Eval RHS, then give to LHS


<a id="org638c9df"></a>

### Questions

-   Junyong Tan wants to be in this tutorial


<a id="orgec37a4c"></a>

## Assignment 1 Report


<a id="org3b08658"></a>

### General Comments

Some students included `>>>` from the IDLE Console into your solution, causing
them to fail, even though after removing the `>>>` answers would be correct.
These symbols are there to prompt you to enter some Python statement to run
(evaluate) and print out the answers - they are not part of the code.

It is heartening to see students using variables and functions to abstract your
code, ie writing `solve_quardratic(a, b, c)` functions. Please keep it up as it
is a good practice.

About style: just like writing English, good styling (ie. a space after
punctuations, *exactly* one space between consecutive words) make the essay easy
to read. In programming, we call it *Coding Style*. In Python we write
variable/function names in Snake Case (ie. `the_third_letter`, `is_prime`) and
so on. Using a IDE like VSCode or PyCharm means you can get auto-styling or
style suggestions for free. Minor styling issues are commented.


<a id="org4f9e95c"></a>

### Question 1

Most students got this part correct, some attempted to create a function that
solves quadratic equations in general, but face one problem - how does it return
two different roots? Turns out, a function in Python can return multiple values!

    from math import sqrt
    def solve_quadratic(a, b, c):
        det = b * b - 4 * a * c
        return (-b + sqrt(det))/2/a, (-b - sqrt(det))/2/a
    ans1, ans2 = solve_quadratic(a, b, c)


<a id="org1d0ed47"></a>

### Question 2

All students got this part correct with very few exceptions.


<a id="orgf4597b3"></a>

### Question 3

All students got this part correct. Some students deployed loops or functions to
abstract, although loops made more sense, since a function that draws a line
then turns 36 degress is hardly reusable in other cases.


<a id="orge234245"></a>

# Week 3


<a id="orgf6390d4"></a>

## Lesson Plan


<a id="org4c299d3"></a>

### Pointers

1.  Loops

    -   start from 0, end is exclusive
        
            # not good
            for i in range(0, 5):
                pass
            # good
            for i in range(5):
                pass
    -   we can write `for _ in range(n)` if we do not use the value in the for loop
        body.
    
        for _ in range(5):
            forward(100)
            left(50)

2.  `in` relationship

    -   For example, strings and lists allow the use of `in` to check whether an
        element is in the collection.
        
            "a" in "abc" # true
            "" in "" # true
            3 in [1, 2, 3] # true
            "ab" in "abc" # true
            [1] in [1] # false
    -   To check bounds of a numerical value:
        
            2 in range(3) # true
            3 in range(1,3) # false

3.  add-equals etc&#x2026;

        # shorthand for a = a + 1
        a += 1
        # shorthand for b = b / 2
        b /= 2

4.  Useful functions

        sum([1, 2, 3]) == 6
        ord('A') == 65

