### Last Chapter: 5
- looking at the same table as before:
- |    | Observed | Expected |
	| --- | --- | --- |
	| death | O | E |
	| no death | O' | E' |
	| Total | O + O' | E + E' |
- two types of test: Chi-squared goodness of fit (GOF) and Standard mortality ratio (SMR)
- GOF is a sum of all discrepancies = (O - E)^2/E, while SMR is just the term for death
- We are then more likely to accept GOF compared to SMR on the chi-squared distribution
- Back to the subject topic. How would dose affect SMR? Intuitively, higher dose should cause more deaths, causing smr to increase. SMR = 1 when dose = 0.
- Another question: keeping p value constant (ie to achieve the same statistical significance), at lower dose, we need a larger sample size to see the "effects" or see more significance. 
- In general, n ~ 1/D. when dose decreases, n increases wildly to maintain same value of p.
- Cohort Study vs Case Control Study
- Cohort Study - given exposure, see if they are diseased
- Case Control study - given diseased or not, see exposure
- In a cohort study: we investigate P(D|E)/P(D|E') = relative risk
- In a case coontrol study: we have only O(E|D) / O(E|D') =(by bayes theorem)= O(D|E) / O(D|E') =(when disease is rare)= relative risk

### Model fitting
- Stochastic model (dealing with randomness) vs Deterministic model 
- Stochastic - given x, predict E(Y|x)
- Deterministic - given x predict Y
- Is it important to look at R^2? no.
- Residual plot: plot out the difference between the predicted and data
- We hope to see a random distribution rather than a pattern.
- Say we have a second model, and we want to compare them, we use the Likelihood Ratio Test.
- Take the predicted values and given values in 2 columns and calculate chi-sq values
- p-value always comes with a H0. Ask yourself what's the H0?

### Back to basics
- Risk = E(Cost) p
- from probability [0,1] to a + bx [-inf, inf]
- probability to odds [0, inf], from odds to log [-inf, inf]
- log(p/(1-p)) , known as the logit model
- When we deal with count, which is discrete
- We plot the expected value of the count [0, inf]
- log(E(x)) = a + by 


