### Difficulties so far
1. Looking at a huge range - use log (scale)
2. Randomness, rare events - rate, model (empirical, mechanistic)
3. Complex construct (eg. "nuclear accident") - operationalization
4. (Upcoming) Too large a population - sampling
5. (Upcoming) Small effect - Hypothesis testing

### Variables!
- There are 2 types: qualitative(categorical), quantitative(numerical)
- Qualitative - Nominal (eg. marital status: single, married, divorced, widowed) and Ordinal (eg. level: low, medium, high)
- Quantitative - Discrete and Continuous
- Let's try to categorize some variables!
    - INES (ordinal, just a label)
    - Core damage (yes/no, binary which is nominal)
    - Generation of NPP (nominal? ordinal? up to discussion)

### Now we describe a dataset.
- Mean: arithematic mean. 
- Median: middle observation (position). Can be extended to ordinal variables.
- Mode: most common value.
- Above are all attempting to describe the dataset in a number. Any other attempts?
- Maximum, minimum, midrange, range

### Time to plot. Excel exercises
- use Mean(), Mode(), Median() for the named functions
- create a data column, create a bin column, selected a 3rd column with same number of rows as bins, type in =Frequency(data, bins) and C-Shift-Enter to get a histogram-ready column.
- Histograms: frequency histogram vs density histogram
- When bins get small, frequency histograms will have many zero bins.
- However density histogram's height = frequency/width, so when width goes to zero, the height doesn't.
- In other words: the count is encoded in height for freq, and area for density.
- Question: when are mean, mode and median equal? Eg. Normal Dist, uniform dist, etc. Answer: symmetrical and unimodal (only one mode - aka one peak)
- Sensitivity to outlier: usually mean.
- Follow up: when do you need it to be sensitive?
- Ans: depending on what you are measuring. Eg. for nuclear accidents' radiation, you want to know if something is very wrong.
- Another example: for marks in class, we don't want to know about the mean (some handful doing very badly), instead we ask about the median mark.

### Inferential Statistics
- Spoiler: for the population, only its mean (and not mode or median) can be predicted by a sample (mean).
- Two big ideas: central tendency and variability. 
- Okay, now variability. Generally we have variance, standard deviation.
- How many things we can play with? 
    1. The reference (mode, mean, median)
    2. The function (square, modulus)
    3. The way you get the mean (am, gm, hm, qm)
- Prof Raynal: the measure of central tendency is automatically fixed when we choose a way to measure variability.
- Eg when we look at abs stdev, square variance, and max abs deviation (range), their value minimizes when their reference is taken to be [median, mean, midrange] respectively.

### Inferential Statistics for Quantitative
- Of the measures for central tendency, only mode works now. (compare mean, median)
- Mode: most number of occurences. What is the frequency?
- Proposition: we let v = 1 - freq-of-mode
- Since variability unpacked = occurrence + values, and values don't apply in quantitative variables
- We call this *uncertainty* instead.


