## Lesson 1
### Last week's recap
1. Variability and central tendency, given 4 types of variables
2. Median of median (of median of..)
3. For nominal variables: frequency, uncertainty, entropy

### Hypothesis testing
- The "Problem" of induction - hypothesis - is it correct for inference?
- We test if a value is too far from the center. Center, again, can be median or mean.
- Median: covered by the middle x%?
- Mean: is it within x standard deviations away from the mean?
- Z-values and P-value ....?

### Radioactive source on earth! :death:
- Radon! Bananas, the sun, cosmic ray etc.
- Manmade: Nuclear accidents, waste disposal, x-ray check, internal (tracing), radiotherapy
- Earth's magnetic field shields us from radiation; then the atmosphere.
- However mars does not have a magnetosphere.

### Measuring radiation at home.
1. Step 1: come up with a unit. Subjective and objective:
    Objective: Count/s -> Bq
    Subjective: We leave it till Part 3 of this chapter.
- for radon (gas), we divide the value over volume.
2. Step 2: Decide when is it dangerous
- weigh the cost needed to make a change in your environment vs cost of your life (probability of sick * cost)

## Lesson 2
### Sampling
- Most important property? Representativeness
- What are the ways to sample? Random and non-random
- | Random | Non-Random |
    | --- | --- |
    | Simple Random Sample | Convinient Sample |
    | - each sample of the same size  have the same probability to be chosen | - eg. a sample of usp students = the whole nuclear class |
    | We can only say something about discrepancy between sample and population if we use random | We can't |
    | Stratified Sampling
        - have criteria (eg geological status of soil) to divide population into strata
        - important: to see if the strata are homogenous
        - yes then take one, if not take many
        | |
    | Systematic 
        - choose the nth person where n = x mod y.
        - randomness lies in x and y
        | |
    | Quota
        - Take from certain stratas in full
        | |

- Use randomness as much as possible; unless 1. You ran out of resources, and 2. you know extra information about the population.

### How to select the randome sample of houses?
1. Choose by postal code
    - implications: only get densely populated areas
    - now it depends on definition ( all possible places/ places where people live)
2. How do we estimate population from sample?
    - Investigate the distribution of sample means.
    - Using the archery analogy, the sample means are distributed around the center
    - by increasing sample size, we "squeeze" the arrows without changing their collective center.
    - This is known as the law of large numbers
3. Conclusion
    - We say a sample mean distribution is
        - unbiased when E(m) = miu^2
        - Precise when V(m) is small
        ( Note that V(m) is proportional to 1/m in real life, but 1/m^2 in ideal.
